---
layout: post
comments: true
title: "CKAN Major Releases Timeline: A Journey of Continuous Improvement"
description: A Journey of Continuous Improvement
image: null
sticky: false
---
CKAN, an open-source data management system, has evolved over the years to become one of the leading platforms for sharing and managing open data. From its humble beginnings to its latest version, 2.10, CKAN has undergone significant transformations and enhancements. In this post, we’ll look at some of the major releases that have shaped CKAN’s development, highlighting the key features and improvements introduced along the way.

[Version 0.1: The Birth of CKAN (May 2006)](https://cdn.knightlab.com/libs/timeline3/latest/embed/index.html?source=1UdHqTjd8FryxUIhtZ8jJ4KHbV6p40tMUZkPWO5SBiKY&initial_zoom=2&height=800&hash_bookmark=true#event-v01)
CKAN emerged as an ambitious project aimed at facilitating open data sharing. Version 0.1 marked its initial release, laying the foundation for what would become a powerful data management system.

[Version 1.0: A Solid Foundation (May 11, 2010)](https://cdn.knightlab.com/libs/timeline3/latest/embed/index.html?source=1UdHqTjd8FryxUIhtZ8jJ4KHbV6p40tMUZkPWO5SBiKY&initial_zoom=2&height=800&hash_bookmark=true#event-v10)
With version 1.0, CKAN introduced critical improvements to its authorization system, search capabilities, and resource previews. This release provided a robust infrastructure for managing datasets and laid the groundwork for subsequent advancements. This release also saw a major new production deployment with the CKAN software powering [data.gov.uk/](http://data.gov.uk/)

[Version 1.1: Evolving Towards Efficiency (August 10, 2010)](https://cdn.knightlab.com/libs/timeline3/latest/embed/index.html?source=1UdHqTjd8FryxUIhtZ8jJ4KHbV6p40tMUZkPWO5SBiKY&initial_zoom=2&height=800&hash_bookmark=true#event-v101)
Building on the solid foundation of version 1.0, CKAN 1.1 focused on improving performance and stability. It also expanded the API features and documentation, making it easier for developers to interact with CKAN.

[Version 1.2: Streamlining Workflows (November 25, 2010)](https://cdn.knightlab.com/libs/timeline3/latest/embed/index.html?source=1UdHqTjd8FryxUIhtZ8jJ4KHbV6p40tMUZkPWO5SBiKY&initial_zoom=2&height=800&hash_bookmark=true#event-v12)
CKAN 1.2 aimed to enhance the user experience by automating the creation of resource views and improving the dataset creation workflow. These updates streamlined processes, allowing users to manage their data efficiently.

[Version 1.3: Opening the Harvesting Gateway (February 18, 2011)](https://cdn.knightlab.com/libs/timeline3/latest/embed/index.html?source=1UdHqTjd8FryxUIhtZ8jJ4KHbV6p40tMUZkPWO5SBiKY&initial_zoom=2&height=800&hash_bookmark=true#event-v13)
Introducing harvesting capabilities, CKAN 1.3 enabled users to aggregate and import data from external sources. The release also focused on improving dataset editing, validation, and activity stream functionality, providing users with more control and visibility over their datasets.

[Version 2.0: A Paradigm Shift (May 10, 2013)](https://cdn.knightlab.com/libs/timeline3/latest/embed/index.html?source=1UdHqTjd8FryxUIhtZ8jJ4KHbV6p40tMUZkPWO5SBiKY&initial_zoom=2&height=800&hash_bookmark=true#event-v20)
Version 2.0 was a major milestone for CKAN, bringing about a significant architectural overhaul. This release drastically improved performance and scalability, supporting multiple organizations and enhancing user management and permissions.

[Version 2.1: Enhanced Collaboration (August 13, 2013)](https://cdn.knightlab.com/libs/timeline3/latest/embed/index.html?source=1UdHqTjd8FryxUIhtZ8jJ4KHbV6p40tMUZkPWO5SBiKY&initial_zoom=2&height=800&hash_bookmark=true#event-v21)
CKAN 2.1 focused on improving organization and user management, making it easier for multiple stakeholders to collaborate effectively. It also introduced dataset ratings and comments, fostering engagement and feedback within the CKAN community.

[Version 2.2: Expanding Possibilities (February 04, 2014)](https://cdn.knightlab.com/libs/timeline3/latest/embed/index.html?source=1UdHqTjd8FryxUIhtZ8jJ4KHbV6p40tMUZkPWO5SBiKY&initial_zoom=2&height=800&hash_bookmark=true#event-v22)
With version 2.2, CKAN expanded its functionality by introducing groups, improving harvesting capabilities, and enhancing the API features and documentation. These updates empowered users to organize and manage their data more efficiently.

[Version 2.3: Advancing Linked Data (March 4, 2015)](https://cdn.knightlab.com/libs/timeline3/latest/embed/index.html?source=1UdHqTjd8FryxUIhtZ8jJ4KHbV6p40tMUZkPWO5SBiKY&initial_zoom=2&height=800&hash_bookmark=true#event-v23)
CKAN 2.3 brought support for linked data and the semantic web, enabling users to connect and leverage structured data across different sources. It also enhanced dataset revisioning, user interface, and search capabilities, ensuring a more seamless experience.

[Version 2.4: Unlocking Data Insights (July 22, 2015)](https://cdn.knightlab.com/libs/timeline3/latest/embed/index.html?source=1UdHqTjd8FryxUIhtZ8jJ4KHbV6p40tMUZkPWO5SBiKY&initial_zoom=2&height=800&hash_bookmark=true#event-v240)
With the introduction of resource views for tabular data, CKAN 2.4 enabled users to visualize and explore their data in new ways. This release also improved dataset and resource editing, as well as search performance and relevancy.

[Version 2.5: Data Previews and Beyond (December 17, 2015)](https://cdn.knightlab.com/libs/timeline3/latest/embed/index.html?source=1UdHqTjd8FryxUIhtZ8jJ4KHbV6p40tMUZkPWO5SBiKY&initial_zoom=2&height=800&hash_bookmark=true#event-v251)
CKAN 2.5 brought data previews, allowing users to get a glimpse of their data before accessing it fully. The release also included enhancements to API authentication, visualizations, and charts, making data exploration more engaging and interactive.

[Version 2.6: Private Datasets in search results (November 2, 2016)](https://cdn.knightlab.com/libs/timeline3/latest/embed/index.html?source=1UdHqTjd8FryxUIhtZ8jJ4KHbV6p40tMUZkPWO5SBiKY&initial_zoom=2&height=800&hash_bookmark=true#event-v260)
CKAN 2.6 Private datasets are now included in the default dataset search results. This update enhanced users to discover and analyze location-based information, enhancing CKAN’s versatility.

[Version 2.7: New Datatables view for Tabular Data (August 02, 2017)](https://cdn.knightlab.com/libs/timeline3/latest/embed/index.html?source=1UdHqTjd8FryxUIhtZ8jJ4KHbV6p40tMUZkPWO5SBiKY&initial_zoom=2&height=800&hash_bookmark=true#event-v270)
With version 2.7, CKAN released a new Datatables view for tabular data. New result formats and performance improvements for datastore_search. This release also focused on improving search performance, user interface, and accessibility.

[Version 2.8: New revamped frontend templates (May 9, 2018)](https://cdn.knightlab.com/libs/timeline3/latest/embed/index.html?source=1UdHqTjd8FryxUIhtZ8jJ4KHbV6p40tMUZkPWO5SBiKY&initial_zoom=2&height=800&hash_bookmark=true#event-v280)
CKAN 2.8 New revamped frontend templates based on Bootstrap 3, Data API on private datasets, and improved support for custom groups and organization types. It also enhanced organization management and dataset editing capabilities, providing a more tailored experience.

[Version 2.9: Replacing CKAN’s web framework (August 5, 2020)](https://cdn.knightlab.com/libs/timeline3/latest/embed/index.html?source=1UdHqTjd8FryxUIhtZ8jJ4KHbV6p40tMUZkPWO5SBiKY&initial_zoom=2&height=800&hash_bookmark=true#event-v290)
Replacing CKAN’s web framework from Pylons to Flask and support for Python 3. The release also improved resource previews, metadata handling, and validation, ensuring data integrity.

[Version 2.10: Continuing the Journey (February 15, 2023)](https://cdn.knightlab.com/libs/timeline3/latest/embed/index.html?source=1UdHqTjd8FryxUIhtZ8jJ4KHbV6p40tMUZkPWO5SBiKY&initial_zoom=2&height=800&hash_bookmark=true#event-v2100)
The latest major release covered in this post, CKAN 2.10, focused on API documentation improvements, enhanced organization management, and enhanced security and access controls. These updates aimed to make CKAN even more secure, user-friendly, and accessible to a wider range of data publishers and consumers.

**CKAN** has come a long way since its inception, continuously evolving to meet the growing demands of open data management. The major releases outlined in this post demonstrate CKAN’s commitment to improving performance, expanding functionality, and providing users with an intuitive and robust data management experience. As CKAN moves forward, it will undoubtedly continue to play a pivotal role in empowering individuals, organizations, and communities to share, explore, and unlock the potential of open data.
<iframe src="https://cdn.knightlab.com/libs/timeline3/latest/embed/index.html?source=1UdHqTjd8FryxUIhtZ8jJ4KHbV6p40tMUZkPWO5SBiKY&initial_zoom=2&height=800&hash_bookmark=true#event-ckan-release-timeline" style="width:100%; height:800px;" frameborder="0" allowtransparency="true"></iframe>